Add multi-tenant docs per OKTA-372163, OKTA-370440 (#2023)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/concepts/multi-tenancy/index.md

---
title: Multi-tenant solutions
---

<div class="multi-tenancy">

# Multi-tenant solutions

Organizations that need to manage a diverse set of user types should consider
the Okta multi-tenant solution. This doc provides an overview of the
solution, identifies reasons why organizations may want to consider it, and
lists the different multi-tenant configurations available.

## Acme Bank example

Acme Bank, a fictitious bank, is used throughout this doc to explain the
details and key concepts around multi-tenancy. The company came to Okta to
centralize and improve their existing identity management infrastructure.
To meet the needs and demands of their employees, customers, and partners,
they built their solution with a multi-tenant configuration.

## What is a tenant?
A tenant is a single instance of software and supporting infrastructure that
supports a group of users. These groups can represent any entity that
interfaces with the organization such as its employees, customers, or partners.

> This entity can be an individual user (B2C) or another company (B2B) with its

Author: Updated.

own set of users.

### A tenant within Identity Access Management
A tenant can also be considered as an isolated island of data that is separate
and private from other tenants. In the context of identity management, each
tenant has its own security policies, user registration settings, user groups,
roles, and rules that determine application access. An illustration of these

> different types of data are shown below:

Author: Updated.

An organization can create a new tenant for a variety of reasons. For example
they may want to:

* Separate user administration and application access for internal employees
  from outside customers
* Store customer data in the country of origin due to regulations and data
residency requirements
* Satisfy a unique set of requirements (for example, distinct branding emails,
onboarding videos) for a business with their own set of users
* Increase isolation, performance, and scalability for an organization with a large
user base

## Types of tenants

Tenants can comprise one or more of the following entities:

* Individual customers
* A business entity
* Employees
* Contractors
* External partners

Examples of organizations and their tenants are shown below:

<div class="image-at-100">

![Types of tenants](/img/multi-tenancy/tenant-types.png "Examples of three Okta customers and their tenants.")

</div>

### Acme Bank's tenants

Acme Bank defined their tenants as:

<div class="image-at-70">

![Acme Bank tenant examples](/img/multi-tenancy/acme-bank-tenant-examples.png
 "Acme Bank tenant examples")

</div>

## Okta multi-tenant configuration options

### Before we begin

> This doc assumes a basic knowledge of the Okta entity model and uses Okta

Author: Updated.

terminology such as "org" and "Universal Directory" when describing key
concepts and configurations. For more information on these entities and how
they relate to each another, see the following resources:

* [What is an Okta org?](/docs/concepts/okta-organizations/)
* [Overview of the Okta data model](/docs/concepts/okta-data-model/)
* [Terminology section in this doc](#relevant-terminology)

### Overview

Okta has a highly adaptable and configurable solution for customers looking to
implement multi-tenancy. Depending on the solution, a tenant can take the form
of an org container, user groups within an org, or a customer-defined entity
that is separate from the Okta platform. What form the tenant takes within Okta’s
platform is ultimately decided by the customer. Okta offers four main
configurations for multi-tenancy. They are:

* [Configuration 1: Host tenants in a single org using Universal Directory (UD)](#configuration-1)

> * [Configuration 2: Host tenants in separate orgs (for example, Hub and Spoke](#configuration-2)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Configuration 2: Host tenants in separate orgs (for example, hub-and-spoke](#configuration-2)
```

Author: Updated in the latest commit.

* [Configuration 3: Mixed. Host tenants in both single and separate orgs](#configuration-3)
* [Configuration 4: Host tenants in a single org not using UD](#configuration-4)

## Configuration 1

Host tenants in a single org using Universal Directory (UD)

### Summary

This configuration hosts all tenants in a single org. Customers have two
ways to do this:

* Roll your own custom solution
* Use the [okta-dac](https://docs.idp.rocks/) project

Since a tenant doesn't exist as a separate entity within the org, both methods
require abstracting tenants through the use of the org’s users and user groups.

### When to choose this configuration

Okta customers should choose this configuration when:

* Cost is the driver.
* Their users use a single version of all applications.
* User self-registration is the same for all users in all tenants.
* All tenants have a relatively small number of password policies (>1000).
* None of their customers and users have data residency requirements.
* All branding communications and onboarding experiences are the same for all
  users.
* It's acceptable to support unique usernames for each tenant by storing them

>   in the Okta platform with custom naming conventions (for example, app-1-johndoe,

Author: Updated.

>   app-2-johndoe).

Author: Updated.

dashboard. The Tenants API wraps the
[Okta API](https://developer.okta.com/docs/reference/api-overview/) that is
used to manage the Okta org’s data.

#### Delegated Admin Console

A tool (DAC) that is used to manage users of a tenant. The tool is split
into two UIs that include:

* **Super Admin UI:** Used to create new tenants and their first admin user.
Used by Super Admins.
* **Tenant Admin UI:** Used to manage users of a specific tenant. Used by
the Admin user of a tenant.

#### Okta End-User Dashboard

A dashboard used to access applications and products

#### Admin console

A [console](/docs/guides/quickstart/cli/using-console/)
used to manage user authentication settings and application access.
Although you can manage users and groups through the Admin Console,
it isn't recommended when using okta-dac due to the project's specific
naming conventions and unique organizational constraints.

The diagram below illustrates how these components work together:

<div class="image-at-50">

![Okta project Framework](/img/multi-tenancy/dac-framework.png
 "Architectural framework showing how the okta-project is organized.")

</div>

#### Customizations

> The DAC, Okta End-User Dashboard, and Admin Console are default UI’s provided

Author: Updated in the latest commit.

by Okta. Since these tools use Tenant and Okta APIs to manage the Okta org,
Okta customers can plug in their own custom UIs.

#### From logical to physical

The Delegated Admin Console and Okta End-User Dashboard use the Tenant API to
convert the org's inherently more flattened layout into abstract concepts
such as tenants and products. Concepts such as products and tenants become
applications, groups, and users (people) under the physical structure of
the org. Following the previous examples, this conversion looks
like the following:

<div class="image-at-60">

![Conceptual to physical](/img/multi-tenancy/tenant-to-org-translate.png
 "Illustrates how the conceptual model is translated to the actual org model")

</div>

> **Note:** okta-dac isn't an official Okta product and doesn't
qualify for any support. It's recommended to work with your preferred Okta
Solution Provider to integrate this code within your existing portal.

#### More information

See [okta-dac](https://docs.idp.rocks/) for more information.

## Configuration 2

> Host tenants in separate orgs (for example, Hub and Spoke)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Host tenants in separate orgs (for example, hub-and-spoke)
```

Author: Updated in the latest commit.

### Summary

This configuration separates tenants into separate containers (orgs).

> The most popular architecture for this configuration is known as Hub and Spoke.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most popular architecture for this configuration is known as hub-and-spoke.
```

Author: Updated in the latest commit.

support in [okta-dac](#the-okta-dac-project), the number of delegated
responsibilities that are supported is limited. Splitting customers and
partners into separate orgs offer the maximum level of delegated
responsibility support.
* **Out-of-the-box duplicate name support:** This configuration offers
native support for duplicate usernames, since duplicate usernames can exist
in different orgs.
* **Branding emails:** Branding emails, onboarding videos, and other
communications are set at the org level. As a result, this configuration
supports unique forms of communications per tenant.
* **Performance:** For large enterprise customers, there are performance
advantages to spreading tenant user authentications into multiple orgs.
* **Analytics:** Reading analytics and tracking user adoption for each
tenant is exponentially easier when tenants are separated into orgs.
* **Unique DNSs:** Customers in each tenant may want to customize their
DNS and "post sign-in" redirect page. In this case, a tenant per org natively
supports this functionality.

### Implementations

The Okta supported design for a multi-org, multi-tenant configuration is

> the Hub and Spoke setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the hub-and-spoke setup.
```

Author: Updated in the latest commit.

Author: Updated in the latest commit.

> ### Hub and spoke physical layout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Hub-and-spoke physical layout
```

Author: Updated in the latest commit.

> The two main components of the hub and spoke layout are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The two main components of the hub-and-spoke layout are:
```

Author: Updated in the latest commit.

* **Spoke:** Org that contains users, user groups, and applications specific to
 that tenant. Spokes are responsible for lifecycle management and
 the authentication of its users.

* **Hub:** Org that contains shared users, user groups, and applications. Spokes
access shared applications and platform services through the hub. Hubs provide
shared directory services, authentication, sign-in policies, and authorization
services to spokes in a centralized way. In addition, hubs can route users
to different spokes for authentication access to other spoke’s specific
applications.

#### Connecting the spokes to the hubs

Using the Org2Org connector, spokes can add users and give access to shared
applications and services through the hub.

#### Diagram

> A diagram illustrating the hub and spoke configuration is shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A diagram illustrating the hub-and-spoke configuration is shown below:
```

Author: Updated in the latest commit.

<div class="image-at-90">

![Multi-org layout](/img/multi-tenancy/multi-org-configuration-layout.png

>  "Diagram showing how the layout of the hub and spoke model")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 "Diagram showing how the layout of the hub-and-spoke model")
```

Author: Updated.

</div>

#### More information

> To discover more about the hub and spoke architecture visit the following links:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To discover more about the hub-and-spoke architecture visit the following links:
```

Author: Updated.

* [Different Ways To Architect Multitenancy in Okta](https://www.okta-from-the-field.com/post/different-ways-to-architect-multitenancy-in-okta)
* [Okta for Global, Distributed Organizations](https://www.okta.com/resources/whitepaper/okta-for-global-distributed-organizations/)
* [An Identity Framework for Higher Education Systems](https://www.okta.com/resources/whitepaper/an-identity-framework-for-higher-education-systems/)

## Configuration 3

Hybrid - host tenants in both single and separate orgs

### Summary

Okta supports a hybrid configuration that mixes the setups described in both the
first and second configurations. How this configuration is set up varies from
customer to customer. One example of this hybrid configuration lays out orgs

> in a hub and spoke pattern like configuration 2. A spoke on this configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in a hub-and-spoke pattern like configuration 2. A spoke on this configuration
```

Author: Updated.

can be composed of single or multiple tenants. See the diagram below for an
illustrated example of this setup:

<div class="image-at-90">

![Hybrid configuration](/img/multi-tenancy/hybrid-configuration.png
 "Diagram illustrating the configuration of a hybrid configuration")

</div>

### When to use this option

Depending on the requirements, business customers may require the data
isolation, customizations, and other features provided by a single org.
Other customers may not have these demands and can be placed on a shared
org with other customers. This hybrid configuration supports both types of
customers.

## Configuration 4

Host tenants in a single org not using Universal Directory

### Summary

In this configuration, the customer assumes responsibility for managing
users, groups, and application access outside of the Okta org. Okta’s Universal
Directory (UD) isn't used to store the tenants’ users and groups. See below
for an illustrated example of this
configuration.

<div class="image-at-80">

![Hybrid configuration](/img/multi-tenancy/custom-centric-configuration.png
 "Diagram showing a full custom implementation")

</div>

## Reference

### Additional resources

> Additional multi-tenant resources are below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional multi-tenancy resources are below:
```

Author: Updated.

* [The Secret Features of Okta Access Gateway: Part 1: Multi-data Center and Multi-Tenancy](https://www.okta.com/blog/2020/02/the-secret-features-of-okta-access-gateway-part-1-multi-data-center-and-multi-tenancy-1/)

### Relevant terminology

> #### Org

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Org
```

Any information that isn't already contained in our Data Model doc should just be added there.

Author: Changes will be included in the next version of the multi-tenant documentation.  See https://oktainc.atlassian.net/browse/OKTA-386182 for more info.

---
title: Multi-tenant solutions
---

<div class="multi-tenancy">

# Multi-tenant solutions

> <div class="title-subtext">

Author: Per out meetings the subtext styling has been removed.

What is multi-tenancy? Does my company need it? If so, how should it
be configured to meet my company’s needs?
</div>

## Acme Bank example

> <section class="acme-bank-container">

Author: Since there is additional feedback that will go into a future release concerning the Acme Bank example, I am removing the logo for now.

<div class="acme-bank-text">

> Acme Bank is a fictitious banking company which had come to Okta to

Author: Done. See latest commit.

centralize and improve their existing identity management infrastructure.
To meet the needs and demands of their employees, customers, and partners,
they built their solution with a multi-tenant configuration. Acme Bank is
used through this guide to explain details and key concepts around
multi-tenancy.
</div>
<div class="acme-bank-image">

![Acme Bank Logo](/img/multi-tenancy/acme-bank-logo.png "The logo of Acme Bank")

</div>
</section>

## What is a tenant?
A tenant is a single instance of software and supporting infrastructure that
supports a group of users. These groups can represent any entity that

> interfaces with the organization such as its employees, customers or partners.

Author: Done. See latest commit.

This entity can be an individual user (B2C) or another company (B2B) with its
own set of users.

### A tenant within Identity Access Management
A tenant can also be considered as an isolated island of data that is separate
and private from other tenants. In the context of identity management, each
tenant has its own security policies, user registration settings, user groups,

> roles and rules that determine application access. An illustration of these

Author: Done. See latest commit.

different types of data are shown below:

<div class="image-at-70">

![What is a tenant?](/img/multi-tenancy/what-is-a-tenant.png "Examples of Acme Bank's tenants")

</div>

## Why would you want more than one tenant

An organization can create a new tenant for a variety of reasons. For example
they may want to:

> <div class="modern-list">

Author: Per our meetings, the list styling has been removed.

> * Separate out user administration and application access for internal employees

Author: Done. See latest commit.

>   from outside customers.

Author: Done. See latest commit.

* Store customer data in the country of origin due to regulations and data

> residency requirements.

Author: Done. See latest commit.

> * Satisfy a unique set of requirements (e.g. distinct branding emails,

Author: Done. See latest commit.

> onboarding videos) for a business with their own set of users.

Author: Done. See latest commit.

* Increase isolation, performance, and scalability for an organization with a large

> user base.

Author: Done. See latest commit.

</div>

## Types of tenants

> Tenants can comprise of one or more of the following entities:

Author: Done. See latest commit.

> <div class="modern-numbered-list">

Reviewer: I don't see why this list needs to be numbered at all.

Also, because this is being done with CSS, if you're just reviewing the markdown it's easy to miss that this is a numbered list in the first place.

> <div class="modern-numbered-list">

Author: The styling of the lists has been removed.  Regarding the "miss" comment, the "modern-numbered-list" identifies that the list is a number.  This is how I've done numbered lists in the past.  I will research however, alternatives ways such as formatting a numbered list to make it more explicit.

* Individual customers
* A business entity
* Employees
* Contractors
* External partners

</div>

Examples of organizations and their tenants are shown below:

<div class="image-at-100">

![Types of tenants](/img/multi-tenancy/tenant-types.png "Examples of three Okta customers and their tenants.")

</div>

### Acme Bank's tenants

> Acme Bank has defined their tenants as:

Author: Done. See latest commit.

<div class="image-at-70">

![Acme Bank tenant examples](/img/multi-tenancy/acme-bank-tenant-examples.png
 "Acme Bank tenant examples")

</div>

> ## How to configure multi-tenancy in Okta

Author: Done. See latest commit.

### Before we begin

> This guide assumes a basic knowledge of the Okta entity model and uses Okta

Author: Done. See latest commit.

> terminology such as “org” and “Universal Directory” in describing key

Author: Done. See latest commit.

concepts and configurations. For more information on these entities and how
they relate to each another, see the following resources:

<div class="modern-list">

* [What is an Okta org?](/docs/concepts/okta-organizations/)
* [Overview of the Okta data model](/docs/concepts/okta-data-model/)
* [Terminology section in this guide](#relevant-terminology)

</div>

### Overview

Okta has a highly adaptable and configurable solution for customers looking to
implement multi-tenancy. Depending on the solution, a tenant can take the form
of an org container, user groups within an org, or a customer defined entity
separate from the Okta platform. What form the tenant takes within Okta’s
platform is ultimately decided by the customer. Okta offers four main
configurations for multi-tenancy.  They are:

<div class="modern-list">

* [Configuration 1: Host tenants in a single org using Universal Directory (UD)](#configuration-1)

> * [Configuration 2: Host tenants in separate orgs (e.g. Hub and Spoke](#configuration-2)

Author: Done. See latest commit.

* [Configuration 3: Mixed. Host tenants in both single and separate orgs](#configuration-3)

> * [Configuration 4: Host tenants in a single org NOT using UD](#configuration-4)

Author: Done. See latest commit.

</div>

## Configuration 1

<div class="heading-2-subtext">Host tenants in a single org using Universal
Directory (UD)</div>

### Summary

This configuration hosts all tenants in a single org. Customers have two
ways to do this:

<div class="modern-list">

* Roll your own custom solution
* Use the [okta-dac](https://docs.idp.rocks/) project

</div>

<div class="padded-line"></div>

Since a tenant doesn't exist as a separate entity within the org, both methods

> require abstracting tenants through use of the org’s users and user groups.

Author: Done. See latest commit.

### When to choose this configuration

Okta customers should choose this configuration when:

<div class="modern-numbered-list">

> * Cost is the driver

Author: Done. See latest commit.

> * Their users use a single version of all applications

Author: Done. See latest commit.

> * User self registration is same for all users in all tenants

Author: Done. See latest commit.

> * All tenants will have a relatively small number of password policies (>1000)

Author: Done. See latest commit.

> * None of their customers and users have data residency requirements

Author: Done. See latest commit.

> * All branding communications and onboarding experiences are same for all

Author: Done. See latest commit.

>   users

Author: Done. See latest commit.

> * It is acceptable to support unique usernames for each tenant by storing them

Author: Done. See latest commit.

>   in the Okta platform with custom naming conventions (e.g. app-1-johndoe,

Author: Done. See latest commit.

  app-2-johndoe).

</div>

### How tenants are built

In this configuration there is one org for all tenants. For example, Acme Bank

> configures one org for all their individual customers, business customers, and

Author: Done. See latest commit.

partners. Regardless of how this configuration is implemented, tenants are
typically created using groups. A group or collection of groups represent the

> users in a tenant. Groups are assigned to applications which give application

Author: Done. See latest commit.

access to all users within that group.  

Acme Bank offers products, website portals, and other wealth management apps

> to their customers and partners.  Below is a diagram laying out

Author: Done. See latest commit.

how these products, users, and groups would be organized within the Okta org.

<div class="image-at-100">

![Single org example](/img/multi-tenancy/single-org-overview-example.png
 "Conceptual model of how an org is organized with a single org configuration")

</div>

#### User types

A recommended strategy is to create user types that allow a hierarchy of users
with increasing permissions. As shown in the above diagram, three types of
users are defined:

<div class="modern-list">

* [User](#user)
* [Admin User](#admin-user)
* [Super User (Admin of Admins)](#super-user)

</div>

#### User

> These people are users of the tenant.  They can be individual customers in a

Author: Done. See latest commit.

> customers tenant, customers of a fintech company, or employees of the Okta

Author: Done. See latest commit.

customer. Users have the ability to access products and applications assigned to

> them. Depending on the setup they can also manage their own profile settings

Author: Done. See latest commit.

> including updating passwords and enrolling in multi-factor authentication

Author: Done. See latest commit.

(MFA).

#### Admin user

> Admin users manage users of a tenant.  Their responsibilities include:

Author: Done. See latest commit.

<div class="modern-list">

* Adding and updating users within the tenant
* Assigning admin roles to other users

> * Configuring identity providers

Author: Done. See latest commit.

* Verifying email domains

</div>

#### Super user

These users can create new tenants and tenant admins. They are used by
the Okta customer to manage tenants in their org.

### The okta-dac project

The okta-dac project is one such implementation of this configuration. This
project enables multi-tenancy in a single org and is maintained by Okta team
members and supported by the developer community. This project (aka Okta
Multi-Tenant Admin) supports the following functionality:

<div class="modern-list">

* Multi-tenancy in a single org
* Users can be admins of their own tenants

> * Tenant admins can self configure their own Identity Providers for their tenants

Author: Done. See latest commit.

* Tenant admins can manage their own user base

</div>

> This guide will briefly summarize the Okta Multi-Tenant Admin. For more

Author: Done. See latest commit.

detailed information on okta-dac as it relates to architecture,

> setup, and deployment, see the project’s main

Author: Done. See latest commit.

[site](https://docs.idp.rocks/).

> #### Application Architecture

Author: Done. See latest commit.

okta-dac consists of the following components:

<div class="modern-numbered-list">

* [Okta org](#okta-org)
* [Tenants API](#tenants-api)
* [Delegated Admin Console (aka DAC)](#delegated-admin-console)

> * [End user dashboard](#end-user-dashboard)

Author: Done. See latest commit.

* [Admin console](#admin-console)

</div>

#### Okta org

> Container object that stores applications and a tenant’s users and groups.

Author: Done. See latest commit.

#### Tenants API

> API used by Delegated Admin Console (DAC) and End user dashboard.  The

Author: Done. See latest commit.

> Tenants API wraps the

Author: Done. See latest commit.

[Okta API](https://developer.okta.com/docs/reference/api-overview/)

> used to manage the Okta org’s data.

Author: Done. See latest commit.

#### Delegated Admin Console

> A tool (aka DAC) to manage users of a tenant.  The tool is split into two UIs which

Author: Done. See latest commit.

include:

<div class="modern-list">

* **Super Admin UI:**  Used to create new tenants and their first admin user.

> Used by super admin users.

Author: Done. See latest commit.

> * **Tenant Admin UI:** Used to manage users of a specific tenant.  Used by

Author: Done. See latest commit.

the Admin user of a tenant.

</div>

> #### End user dashboard

Author: Done. See latest commit.

> A dashboard used by a users to access applications and products.

Author: Done. See latest commit.

#### Admin console

A [console](/docs/guides/quickstart/cli/using-console/)
used to manage user authentication settings and application access.

> Although users and groups can be managed via this UI, when using

Author: Done. See latest commit.

> okta-dac it is not recommended due to the project's specific

Author: Done. See latest commit.

naming conventions and unique organizational constraints.

The diagram below illustrates how these components work together:

<div class="image-at-50">

![Okta project Framework](/img/multi-tenancy/dac-framework.png
 "Architectural framework showing how the okta-project is organized.")

</div>

#### Customizations

> The DAC, End User Dashboard, and Admin Console are default UI’s provided by

Author: Done. See latest commit.

Okta. Since these tools use Tenant and Okta APIs to manage the Okta org,
Okta customers can plug in their own custom UIs.

#### From logical to physical

The Delegated Admin Console and End User Dashboard use the Tenant API to
convert the org's inherently more flattened layout into abstract concepts
such as tenants and products. Concepts such as products and tenants become
applications, groups, and users (people) under the physical structure of

> the org.  Following the previous examples, this conversion would look

Author: Done. See latest commit.

like the following:

<div class="image-at-60">

![Conceptual to physical](/img/multi-tenancy/tenant-to-org-translate.png
 "Illustrates how the conceptual model is translated to the actual org model")

</div>

<div class="padded-line"></div>

> > **Note:** okta-dac is not an official Okta product and does not

Author: Done. See latest commit.

qualify for any support. It's recommended to work with your preferred Okta
Solution Provider to integrate this code within your existing portal.

#### More information

> For more information about okta-dac visit

Author: Done. See latest commit.

> [here](https://docs.idp.rocks/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

Author: Done. See latest commit.

## Configuration 2

> <div class="heading-2-subtext">Host tenants in separate orgs (e.g. Hub and Spoke)</div>

Author: Done. See latest commit.

### Summary

> This configuration separates tenants into separate containers (aka orgs).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This configuration separates tenants into separate containers (orgs).
```

Author: Done. See latest commit.

The most popular architecture for this configuration is known as Hub and Spoke.

### When to use this configuration

Reasons why organizations choose this configuration include:

* **Data residency requirements:** The data in tenants can more easily be

> isolated when placed into separate orgs.  This isolation becomes relevant

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
isolated when placed into separate orgs. This isolation becomes relevant
```

Author: Done. See latest commit.

> when user data is required to reside only in the user’s country (e.g.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
when user data is required to reside only in the user’s country (for example,
```

Author: Done. See latest commit.

government regulations).

> * **Strong delegated admin support:**  Although there is delegated admin

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Strong delegated admin support:** Although there is delegated admin
```

Author: Done. See latest commit.

support in [okta-dac](#the-okta-dac-project), the amount of supported delegated

> responsibilities is limited.  Splitting customers and partners into separate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
responsibilities is limited. Splitting customers and partners into separate
```

Author: Done. See latest commit.

orgs offer the maximum level of delegated responsibility support.
* **Out-of-the-box duplicate name support:** This configuration offers
native support for duplicate usernames, since duplicate usernames can exist
in different orgs.

> * **Branding emails:**  Branding emails, onboarding videos, and other

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Branding emails:** Branding emails, onboarding videos, and other
```

Author: Done. See latest commit.

communications are set at the org level. As a result, this configuration
supports unique forms of communications per tenant.  

> * **Performance:**  For large enterprise customers, there are performance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Performance:** For large enterprise customers, there are performance
```

Author: Done. See latest commit.

advantages to spreading tenant user authentications into multiple orgs.
* **Analytics:** Reading analytics and tracking user adoption for each
tenant is exponentially easier when tenants are separated into orgs.
* **Unique DNSs:** Customers in each tenant may want to customize their
DNS and "post sign-in" redirect page. In this case, a tenant per org natively
supports this functionality.

### Implementations

The Okta supported design for a multi-org, multi-tenant configuration is
the Hub and Spoke setup.

### Hub and spoke physical layout

The two main components of the hub and spoke layout are:

> * **Spoke:**  Org containing users, user groups, and applications specific to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Spoke:** Org that contains users, user groups, and applications specific to
```

Author: Done. See latest commit.

 that tenant. Spokes are responsible for lifecycle management and
 authentication of its users.

> * **Hub:** Org containing shared users, user groups, and applications.  Spokes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Hub:** Org that contains shared users, user groups, and applications. Spokes
```

Author: Done. See latest commit.

access shared applications and platform services through the hub. Hubs provide
shared directory services, authentication, sign-in policies, and authorization

> services to spokes in a centralized way. In addition, hubs can route users

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
services to spokes in a centralized way. Additionally, hubs can route users
```

Author: Done. See latest commit.

> to different spokes for authentication access to other spoke’s specific

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to different spokes for authentication access to specific applications for other spokes.
```

Author: Done. See latest commit.

> applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

Author: Done. See latest commit.

#### Connecting the spokes to the hubs

Using the Org2Org connector, spokes can add users and give access to shared
applications and services through the hub.

#### Diagram

A diagram illustrating the hub and spoke configuration is shown below:

<div class="image-at-90">

![Multi-org layout](/img/multi-tenancy/multi-org-configuration-layout.png
 "Diagram showing how the layout of the hub and spoke model")

</div>

#### More information

> To discover more about the hub and spoke architecture visit the following links:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To discover more about the hub and spoke architecture, visit the following links:
```

Author: Done. See latest commit.

<div class="modern-list">

* [Different Ways To Architect Multitenancy in Okta](https://www.okta-from-the-field.com/post/different-ways-to-architect-multitenancy-in-okta)
* [Okta for Global, Distributed Organizations](https://www.okta.com/resources/whitepaper/okta-for-global-distributed-organizations/)
* [An Identity Framework for Higher Education Systems](https://www.okta.com/resources/whitepaper/an-identity-framework-for-higher-education-systems/)

</div>

## Configuration 3

<div class="heading-2-subtext">Hybrid - host tenants in both single and separate orgs</div>

### Summary

Okta supports a hybrid configuration that mixes the setups described in both the

> first and second configurations. How this configuration is setup will vary from

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
first and second configurations. How this configuration is set up varies from
```

Author: Done. See latest commit.

customer to customer. One example of this hybrid configuration lays out orgs

> in a hub and spoke pattern like configuration 2.  A spoke on this configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in a hub and spoke pattern like configuration 2. A spoke configured this way
```

Author: Done. See latest commit.

> can comprise of single or multiple tenants.  See the diagram below for an

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
can be comprised of single or multiple tenants. See the diagram below for an
```

Author: Done. See latest commit.

illustrated example of this setup:

<div class="image-at-90">

![Hybrid configuration](/img/multi-tenancy/hybrid-configuration.png
 "Diagram illustrating the configuration of a hybrid configuration")

</div>

### When to use this option

Depending on the requirements, business customers may require the data
isolation, customizations, and other features provided by a single org.
Other customers may not have these demands and can be placed on a shared

> org with other customers.  This hybrid configuration supports both these

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
org with other customers. This hybrid configuration supports both these
```

Author: Done. See latest commit.

types of customers.

## Configuration 4

> <div class="heading-2-subtext">Host tenants in a single org NOT using UD</div>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<div class="heading-2-subtext">Host tenants in a single org not using UD</div>
```

Author: Done. See latest commit.

### Summary

In this configuration, the customer assumes responsibility for managing

> users, groups, and application access outside of the Okta org. Okta’s User

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
users, groups, and application access outside of the Okta org. Okta’s Universal
```

Author: Done. See latest commit.

> Directory (UD) is not used to store the tenants’ users and groups.  See below

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Directory (UD) isn't used to store the tenants’ users and groups.  See below
```

Author: Done. See latest commit.

Author: Done. See latest commit.

# Multi-tenant solutions

> Organizations that need to manage a deverse set of user types should consider

Author: Changes in latest commit.

the Okta multi-tenant solution. This doc provides an overview of the
solution, identifies reasons why organizations may want to consider it, and
lists the different multi-tenant configurations available.

## Acme Bank example

> Acme Bank, a fictitious bank, is used through this doc to explain details

Author: Changes in latest commit.

> of an org container, user groups within an org, or a customer defined entity

Author: Changes in latest commit.

> separate from the Okta platform. What form the tenant takes within Okta’s

Author: Changes in latest commit.

This configuration hosts all tenants in a single org. Customers have two
ways to do this:

* Roll your own custom solution
* Use the [okta-dac](https://docs.idp.rocks/) project

Since a tenant doesn't exist as a separate entity within the org, both methods
require abstracting tenants through the use of the org’s users and user groups.

### When to choose this configuration

Okta customers should choose this configuration when:

* Cost is the driver.
* Their users use a single version of all applications.

> * User self-registration is the same for all users in all tenants

Author: Changes in latest commit.

> * All tenants have a relatively small number of password policies (>1000)

Author: Updated in the latest commit.

The okta-dac project is one such implementation of this configuration. This
project enables multi-tenancy in a single org and is maintained by Okta team
members and supported by the developer community. This project (Okta
Multi-Tenant Admin) supports the following functionality:

* Multi-tenancy in a single org
* Users can be admins of their own tenants
* Tenant admins can self-configure their own Identity Providers for their tenants
* Tenant admins can manage their own user base

This doc briefly summarizes the Okta Multi-Tenant Admin. For more
detailed information on okta-dac as it relates to architecture,
setup, and deployment, see the project’s main
[site](https://docs.idp.rocks/).

#### Application architecture

okta-dac consists of the following components:

* [Okta org](#okta-org)
* [Tenants API](#tenants-api)
* [Delegated Admin Console (DAC)](#delegated-admin-console)
* [Okta End-User dashboard](#end-user-dashboard)

> * [Admin console](#admin-console)

Author: Updated in the latest commit.

#### Okta org

> A container object that stores applications and a tenant’s users and groups.

Author: Updated in the latest commit.

#### Tenants API

An API that is used by the Delegated Admin Console (DAC) and the Okta End-User
dashboard. The Tenants API wraps the
[Okta API](https://developer.okta.com/docs/reference/api-overview/) that is
used to manage the Okta org’s data.

#### Delegated Admin Console

A tool (DAC) that is used to manage users of a tenant. The tool is split
into two UIs that include:

* **Super Admin UI:** Used to create new tenants and their first admin user.
Used by Super Admins.
* **Tenant Admin UI:** Used to manage users of a specific tenant. Used by
the Admin user of a tenant.

#### Okta End-User Dashboard

> A dashboard used to access applications and products.

Author: Updated in the latest commit.

#### Admin console

A [console](/docs/guides/quickstart/cli/using-console/)
used to manage user authentication settings and application access.

> Although you can manage users and groups through this UI,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although you can manage users and groups through the Admin Console,
```

Author: Updated in the latest commit.

</div>

> **Note:** okta-dac isn't an official Okta product and doesn't
qualify for any support. It's recommended to work with your preferred Okta
Solution Provider to integrate this code within your existing portal.

#### More information

See [okta-dac](https://docs.idp.rocks/) for more information.

## Configuration 2

> <div class="heading-2-subtext">Host tenants in separate orgs (for example,

Reviewer 2: Looks like you are removing the custom CSS - did you miss one here?

Author: Updated in the latest commit.

Hub and Spoke)</div>

### Summary

This configuration separates tenants into separate containers (orgs).
The most popular architecture for this configuration is known as Hub and Spoke.

### When to use this configuration

Reasons why organizations choose this configuration include:

* **Data residency requirements:** The data in tenants can more easily be
isolated when placed into separate orgs. This isolation becomes relevant
when user data is required to reside only in the user’s country (for
example, government regulations).
* **Strong delegated admin support:** Although there is delegated admin

> support in [okta-dac](#the-okta-dac-project), the amount of supported delegated

Reviewer 2: I really struggled with this sentence - how about: 
```suggestion
support in [okta-dac](#the-okta-dac-project), the number of delegated
```

Author: Updated in the latest commit.

> responsibilities is limited. Splitting customers and partners into separate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
responsibilities that are supported is limited. Splitting customers and partners into separate
```

Author: Changes in latest commit.

The two main components of the hub and spoke layout are:

* **Spoke:** Org that contains users, user groups, and applications specific to
 that tenant. Spokes are responsible for lifecycle management and

>  authentication of its users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 the authentication of its users.
```

Author: Changes in latest commit.

> * **Hub:** Org that contains shared users, user groups, and applications.  Spokes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Hub:** Org that contains shared users, user groups, and applications. Spokes
```

Author: Changes in latest commit.

Okta supports a hybrid configuration that mixes the setups described in both the

> first and second configurations. How this configuration is setup will vary from

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
first and second configurations. How this configuration is set up varies from
```

Author: Changes in latest commit.

Depending on the requirements, business customers may require the data
isolation, customizations, and other features provided by a single org.
Other customers may not have these demands and can be placed on a shared

> org with other customers. This hybrid configuration supports both these

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
org with other customers. This hybrid configuration supports both
```

Author: Changes in latest commit.
